---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---
  
## Project Evaluation
  
There was no class on Tuesday so there’s nothing to report for that day. We did have an assignment to complete which was to find out and record the details about open source projects.  The goal was to give us an idea of how to evaluate the status of an open source project to decide whether or not we should put in the time to contribute to it. The assignment was quite tedious however as GitHub did not make the requested information easily available.
  
## Personal Improvement
  
I feel that if I want to contribute to open source projects, my number one barrier is to get past my shyness. The thought of “approaching” a stranger and asking to contribute to their project is quite scary to me and I’ve always had trouble mingling with strangers on the internet (I like to think I’ve gotten a bit better at it though). It can often be difficult to gauge the culture and tone of a new group that you’re trying to enter. I also feel that with an open source project, it may be difficult to figure out where to even start contributing as the scope of these projects can be quite overwhelming.
  
Aside from self-manufactured problems stemming from my social ineptitude I’d obviously like to become a more confident programmer. If I want to make quality contributions to the code of a project, I’ll definitely need to become more skilled in that regard. Of course that just comes with studying and practice so I’m not too worried about it. 
