---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---
  
## Copyright & Software Licenses
  
Kevin Fleming’s talk about copyright and licenses was very easy to understand and shed light on an a few issues that I wasn’t completely clear on. For one, I now understand the difference between a copyright, patent and trademark. Copyright grants the creators of works chief control over that which they create. It applies to almost all forms of creative work. Patents protect intellectual property such as inventions or discoveries.  A trademark protects a word or phrase associated with some product or person. 
  
Throughout the talk, Fleming uses an easy-to-understand hypothetical situation to explain the nuances of copyrights and licensing. The situation is this. A person named Bob develops a library that can be used to determine the maximum amount of ketchup that should be used on fries. He then goes through different scenarios of the code being copied/used and covers which are legal and illegal based on copyright law. If something is copyrighted, permission is needed to create copies of it. He goes into situations in which it is acceptable to share snippets of code. Fair use allows people to access and discuss things in a limited scope, not for commercial uses. The ultimate goal of the talk is to explain what licenses are and how they work. Licenses basically cover copying permissions, whether or not one needs to attribute the code to the original creator and whether or not the source code must also be provided upon publishing an edit. Open source licenses mean that anyone can do anything with the software. Adding a stipulation like restricting its use in illegal activities creates a grey area due to differences in laws and their interpretations. In open source, no usage restrictions are allowed. When a person contributes to an open source project, their code contribution also falls under the license of the project but they are the owner.
